When we talk about why we need diverse materials,
we think about Dr. Rudine Sims Bishop,
and her analogy of windows, mirrors, and sliding glass doors.
Books are sometimes windows.
Offering views of worlds that may be real or imagined, familiar or strange.
These windows are also sliding glass doors.
And readers have only to walk through imagination to become part of whatever world has been created and recreated by the author.
When lighting conditions are just right, however, a window can also be a mirror.
Literature transformed human experience and reflects it back to us.
And in that reflection, we can see our own lives and experiences as part of the larger human experience.
And this is absolutely true. It's been true for a long time and will probably continue to be true.
Yes, people deserve to see themselves on the shelf.
Absolutely.
And differences in what you're reading to who you are, lead to learning,
which is also a very good thing.
Books can be a window and a mirror to the same person,
because books have many entry points.
And not all of them are going to fit every individual.
But also, diverse books are for everyone.
We talk a lot about, we need to diversify our collections because we have this percentage of non white,
non straight other cultural backgrounds in our community.
And that is true.
Everyone deserves to see themselves on the shelf.
But diverse books are for everyone,
not just for who you see reflected in your community.
And just because your experience is not centered, doesn't mean it's not for you.
Let me say that one more time.
Just because your experience is not centered,
doesn't mean it's not for you,
because diverse books are for everyone.
And it's not obligated to teach.
Unless it's a book that is about information that you can learn.
But it's also obligated to entertain.
And sometimes a diverse title is written just for that purpose, to entertain.
And it doesn't have to center your experience for you to enjoy it.
Because diverse books are for everyone.
So listen and think about who is voice?
Are we missing in our collections?
Who are we not seeing?
And sometimes it's hard to think about that because you're not seeing them.
But when the opportunity arises and you notice a gap in the collection,
that's a time for you to not just fill that particular gap,
but look to see how far that extends?
Whose voice voices are we missing?
How do I increase those voices?
Is it a matter of just buying more materials?
Or is it a matter of buying those materials and making sure we're making the connections as to how those will be best used for everyone?
Is there a current solution?
Sometimes there isn't.
One of my favorite questions is how do we diversify our Amish romances
at the current time? Amish romances are not diverse?
Does that mean we stop buying them? Of course not.
It means that we recognize this is an area that needs some work in that area.
It isn't out there to purchase now.
But we keep this issue in mind.
So we're constantly looking.
When we're looking for Amish Romances.
We're looking to see if there has been a change.
We're also looking to see maybe not Amish Romances, but religious fiction.
Can I diversify in that way?
So it is exactly apples to apples.
But it's an issue we're keeping in mind.
And we're looking for other ways to diversify in the meantime.